The Joe Rogan experience.
You spent 200 days in space
in a row.
I did, uh, my first flight was two weeks. My second flight was 200 days.
That's insane.
Yeah. What does that feel like?
Um, the two weeks was not enough. I got back to earth and I was like, my,
and that was awesome. I need to go do this again. Uh,
and after 200 days it was awesome, but it was like, right.
I checked the box and you know, I've done all boxes, done everything.
I was a shuttle pilot, you know, station commander. I did space walks.
So I had a chance. I feel like I had a chance to do everything.
I made a IMAX movie while I was up there.
I feel like I had a chance to do you know, everything on the wanted to do.
When you did two weeks?
Is there a recovery period when you return after two weeks?
Yeah, for sure. But it's pretty quick. Like when you land,
I was super dizzy and I felt like everything was heavy. I,
I was the last guy outta the shuttle cause I was a pilot and, uh, they,
they came in all right,
time for time to get out ver and I grabbed my helmet and I was like,
be careful this thing, mades 500 pounds. Um, wow.
And that night I was just like, I wanted someone next to me. I didn't fall over,
but I felt like I was going to, um, but after a day or two, I was fine. Uh,
but after the long duration flight, it was like that first day sucked.
I could do everything I could walk around and they make you do this torture
where you have to get on your stomach and do it was like burpees, you know,
get up as fast. You can.
They were trying to make you pass out from orthostatic intolerance.
So I could do all that stuff. I just hated it.
And then the second day was a little bit better.
First day was like a couple bottles of wine.
<laugh> the second day was like a bottle of wine.
The third day was like a glass or two. Um, and by a week later, they,
they make you do this balance test where they put you in this big B box,
you can't see anything. And then they move the box and you're like, Ugh.
And they have four sensors on your feet where if your feet are doing this,
you know, you have bad balance. And if your feet go and recover, you're good.
So I did my balance test before flight and after flight.
And after 200 days in space, a week later,
my balance score was than it was before I launched, which I couldn't believe.
But, um, I tell you that story just to say that, you know,
the human body's amazing. It can adapt, uh, pretty.
Quickly. That's CRA. So what is the,
like from the time you land after 200 days,
and then when you're a hundred percent, how, how much time is that? So.
They there's some rule about driving cars.
Like they don't want you driving cars for a couple weeks and the doctors gotta
sign off before you drive. Oh, wow. But like I said, after a week I was,
I had a better balance score. And after a week I did 20 pullups at the gym.
Really? I was not a hundred percent, but I was like 90% now.
Is this because of exercises? They, they prescribe while you're in space.
I absolutely. Yeah. What kind of, what kind of stuff do you have to do up there?
So they give you two and a half hours a day.
The Russians learned on me that your bone density,
it's like a linear progression down, you know,
about one and a half percent a month. You lose bone density,
one and a half percent of the month. It's, it's a straight line.
It doesn't like bottom out. And they had a guy up there for 440 days.
He's the most ever time and space and one mission.
So to combat that we exercise and they found that like pounding,
uh, resistive exercise is what helps your bones and your muscles.
So we have a weightlifting machine.
That's kinda like a Boflex and a treadmill and a bike.
And I was religious about those things. I did 'em every day,
except for my three space walk days.
And we had this really big emergency where other than those four days,
I exercised every day. And are.
You sweating up there?
You sweat a lot. When you exercise nor just doing this, you don't sweat at all.
You can wear the same underwear and shirt for weeks and you don't even notice.
But if, if you have your exercise shirt after a day,
it's like drenched and stinky, like a stinky under armor shirt, because.
There's no circulation of air. Like there's.
There's not as much. Well,
just like if you go to the gym and you get after it for an hour,
you're gonna be sweating. So it's the same thing in space, but on, on north,
even if you just walk around throughout the day, you know, you're, you can tell,
you gotta wash your clothes, but in space, you don't like,
for some reason you don't, you just don't stink on normal. Are they.
Giving you like Marino wool clothes to wear or something? So.
We had under armored shirts. Okay. And after a day or two, it's like,
they stink and you only got one shirt every two weeks. Oh boy. So those things,
they were ripe after a couple days. So I did this experiment with wool clothes.
Like you said, it was like a New Zealand company. I forgot the name of it. Um,
and I was kind of worried, cuz I didn't want to, I thought it'd itch, you know,
wool stuff. So I wore this thing every day for a month.
Got completely drenched sweaty every day for a month in it.
And it did not stink at all. Marino. Woo's amazing. It's amazing. It blew me.
Away. Theres a company called first light. Uh, my friend,
Steve Renell's one of the owners of it. Mm-hmm <affirmative> but it's a, uh,
a hunting company and most of their clothing,
particularly all their base layers and stuff is all made outta Marino wool.
And the first time I'd ever worn, it was on a hunting trip. You,
you realize when you go hunting,
like one of the big problems is it's freezing cold down. Right.
But you're hiking with a lot of gear. So you sweat. Right.
And then you have to sit down and you freeze your, so you get hypothermia. Yeah.
But you don't with Marino wool. Yeah. When Marino wool was wet,
it still keeps you warm. Right.
And so these guys started making hunting gear out of it and it's incredible
stuff. Cause it really doesn't smell it bizarre.
I sweated drenching,
sweat every day for a month and I did that twice and it didn't smell at all.
It blew.
Me away. It's weird. Yeah. But I guess it's organic.
I mean the fibers from the wool and just for whatever reason, it just shakes.
I don't, I don't know what scientific analysis they've ever done on it,
but they can't really seem to do that with synthetics.
They try it with synthetics, but they can't quite get there.
You need a, you need a washing machine. So.
Did, were you the one who figured that out? You brought that stuff with you?
Well, the, I mean it was like a formal experiment, you know,
NASA said that I was working on mice and doing astronomy and testing out
new wool fabric. It was just one, one of the 250 experiments I did.
But it was a good one to do. Um, cuz I didn't stink for a couple months,
which was nice. That's crazy that.
Even in space, Marino, woos, the way to go, that's nuts. Yeah.
It, I, I was really worried. I was afraid it was gonna be uh, you know, itchy,
but I got like X XL. I just, I wanted it loose.
I didn't want my like wool rubbing on me, but mm-hmm <affirmative> it worked.
It was good.
It doesn't itch.
You think of it as like being like that COE wall that like your grandfather
wore, that makes you scratchy. Right. But no, they, they get it down to,
it feels like cotton.
It's very soft. They got it figured out, man, that stuff was awesome. So.
When you're using these machines, they're all resistance span machines.
Is that what it.
Is? Yeah. So the, in the, my book I have a whole, uh,
I make fun of the acronyms. It's a red,
which is the NAS acronym for workout machine. Um, so it's uses vacuum.
There's like tubes like a cylinder. So, uh,
instead of compressing the air for your force,
you're pulling against a vacuum and you can get the, a machine is 600,
a hundred pounds. So you can, I can't bench or squat 600 pounds,
but you can put it on there so you could hurt yourself.
It's and they're really interesting about these machines is they,
they're not attached to the wall of the station.
They're on like Springs and moving devices.
They're called vibration isolation system.
Because if it was attached about like running on a treadmill,
that's a lot of pounding, you know, 200 pounds pounding. Um,
and the earth doesn't really move that much when you do it on earth,
but in space, there's nothing supporting the space station.
So even though it's a million pounds,
the vibration from exercise would actually start to you, knock it outta orbit,
not outta orbit. You break it apart. Actually what really?
They told us in a couple minutes of that'll snap it in half. Yeah.
Cuz the whole thing starts to bend and flex.
And if you're doing it in resonance, it's really dangerous.
They've got videos of like the, the solar rays and these things are big.
They don't fit in the football field.
They're hundreds of feet and they start moving. And if the astronaut forgets to,
if they leave the, if they forget to use the vibration system correctly, um,
the station starts flexing and Houston,
there's some guy that monitors and like the alarm goes off and they call you up,
stop doing what you're doing. Whoa. It kind of blew me away at it.
It's a million pound massive spaceship,
but still there's nothing stopping it. There's nothing like supporting it.
There's no like frame.
No it's just, just floating.
So even the exercise of you running on a treadmill or you doing
squats, there's a lot of, if you're pushing 400 pounds this way,
something's pushing 400 pounds that way. Right. So, um,
and if you're going up and down in the right frequency,
it'll it'll snap the station in half.
Catch new episodes. The Joe Rogan experience for free only on spot of five.
Watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe, a good experience.